Add blogpost for 1.30 release (#382)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2025/10/kubewarden-1.30-release.md

---
title: "Kubewarden 1.30 Release"
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado Juan
date: 2025-10-29
---

Today, Kubewarden 1.30 woke up, shook itself, stretched its wings and took off
to a cluster near you! This release brings in its beak a bunch of policy
features, and performs some future-proofing migrations.

## Migration to OpenReports

So far, Kubewarden Audit Scanner feature has been using the PolicyReports CRDs
from `policyreports.wgpolicyk8s.io` to save its results. These CRDs came from
the [Kubernetes Policy Working
Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/wg-policy/README.md)
and enabled standarized reporting across policy engines.

This initiative has grown into the [OpenReports](https://openreports.io), for

> which Kubewarden is proudly part of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This initiative has grown into [OpenReports](https://openreports.io), of
which Kubewarden is a proud part of.
```

{{< figure class="center" src="/images/openreports.png" alt="OpenReports logo">}}

The OpenReports project is a collaborative effort from multiple CNCF projects
and ecosystem companies. You can find the project on
[GitHub](https://github.com/openreports) and at the [#openreports
channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C08JH5223A6) in the CNCF Slack
workspace.

Starting with `v1.30`, the Audit Scanner keeps being configured by default to
save its results in the now deprecated PolicyReports CRDs from
`policyreports.wgpolicyk8s.io`, but supports the new OpenReports.
This is configurable in the `kubewarden-controller` Helm chart via the value
`auditScanner.reportCRDsKind`, which defaults to `policyreport`, but can be set

> to `openreports`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with `v1.30`, the Audit Scanner retains a default configuration to
save results in the deprecated PolicyReports CRDs from
`policyreports.wgpolicyk8s.io`, but supports the new OpenReports.
This is configurable in the `kubewarden-controller` Helm chart via the value
`auditScanner.reportCRDsKind`, which defaults to `policyreport`, but can be set
to `openreports`.
```

In addition, the `kubewarden-crds` Helm chart installs the deprecated
PolicyReports CRDs by default, and in addition also installs the new
OpenReports CRDs. This is configurable via its values `installPolicyReportCRDs`
and `installOpenReportsCRDs`.

> **Note**
> We will announce the complete deprecation of the old PolicyReports CRDs and
> move into OpenReports CRDs in a future release. For now, no change is needed.

For more information on OpenReports, read our refreshed docs, like the
[explanation of policy reports](https://docs.kubewarden.io/explanations/audit-scanner/policy-reports),
the [how-to on audit scanner](https://docs.kubewarden.io/howtos/audit-scanner),
and the [dependency matrix reference](https://docs.kubewarden.io/reference/dependency-matrix) page.

## Migration to Cosign v3: changes in signing attestations and SBOMs

Released this October, [Cosign v3 ](https://blog.sigstore.dev/cosign-3-0-available/) is a major
update for Sigstore's CLI tool for artifact signing and verification.

Cosign `v2.6.X` added opt-in support for:

> - New bundled formats of signed material + offline verification data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New bundled formats of signed material and offline verification data
```

the fine-grained per-policy permissions for accessing cluster resources with
the policy `spec.contextAwareResources`, or the rest of Kubewarden goodies,
such as PolicyGroups and namespaced segregation, tracing and monitoring, Audit
Scanner, etc.

Of course, enhancing the policy means we took care of the rest of Kubewarden's stack.
We have expanded support on performing migrations from VAPs into Kubewarden's
CEL policy with `kwctl scaffold vap`, which now supports params.

The tutorial on [reusing VAPs into our CEL
policy](https://docs.kubewarden.io/next/tutorials/writing-policies/CEL/reusing-vap)
has also been refreshed, have a look!

## PriorityClass policy gains mutation & denylist

With `v1.1.1`, the [PriorityClass
policy](https://artifacthub.io/packages/kubewarden/priority-class-policy/priority-class-policy)
now supports [a
denylist](https://artifacthub.io/packages/kubewarden/priority-class-policy/priority-class-policy#deny-list).
In addition to the existing `settings.allowed_priority_classes`, you can now
use `settings.denied_priority_classes`.

The policy now can be a mutating policy with the addition of
`settings.default_priority_class`, which if set, will give value to the

> priorityClassName of the workload resource if this one was empty. Note that if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`priorityClassName` of the workload resource if this one was empty. Note that if
```

  layers): We have elected to sign them both in Cosign v2-style and Cosign v3 so
  our users can perform a smooth migration for OCI artifacts, as specific
  in-cluster tools are sometimes needed for these.
- SBOMs, provenance and other artifacts GH releases: Given that these are verified
  with Cosign, we expect our users to use Cosign v3. Because of that, all these artifacts are being signed only using
  the v3 style.
- Our signature verification policies, such as the
  [verify-image-signatures](https://artifacthub.io/packages/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures/verify-image-signatures)
  policy and those [CEL policies using Sigstore
  verification](https://docs.kubewarden.io/tutorials/writing-policies/CEL/example-sigstore#example-sigstore-verification-policy),
  will for now only validate Cosign v2 signatures. A follow-up update will
  add Cosign v3 support.

As usual, our OCI artifacts keep being verifiable with
[Hauler](https://hauler.dev/) (for our Helm chart releases),
[slsactl](https://github.com/rancherlabs/slsactl) or Cosign. Have a
look at our
[tutorial](https://docs.kubewarden.io/tutorials/verifying-kubewarden) for

> verifying Kubewarden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our OCI artifacts continue to be verifiable with
[Hauler](https://hauler.dev/) (for our Helm chart releases),
[slsactl](https://github.com/rancherlabs/slsactl) or Cosign. Have a
look at our
[tutorial](https://docs.kubewarden.io/tutorials/verifying-kubewarden) for
verifying Kubewarden.
```

### Changes to kwctl flags

> Starting with this release, the `fulcio-cert-path` and `rekor-public-key-path` flags have been removed from kwctl. These flags were related to Sigstore and were used to support custom Sigstore instances or air-gapped environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the `fulcio-cert-path` and `rekor-public-key-path` flags are removed from kwctl. These flags were related to Sigstore and used to support custom Sigstore instances or air-gapped environments.
```
